---
layout: post
title: Mirror
published: true
---

This is an option I had not come across when researching multiplayer environment options back in GAM720. Most information I have found this time around seems to be quite recent, even though it appears to have originally come into being in 2016. This, to me, is a good sign, as it appears to be gaining traction and becoming more relevant as time marches on. 

# Benefits
* Open source
* Free
* No player limits
* Good documentation
* Built on the old Unity multiplayer system (UNET), bug-fixed and generally improved.
* Client/Server pattern: the server can be hosted by a 'player, who is also a client (similar to Photon)
* You can also set up a dedicated server.

# Useful links

[GitHub](https://github.com/vis2k/Mirror/releases)


[Dapper Dino (YouTube)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLS6sInD7ThM1aUDj8lZrF4b4lpvejB2uB)


[Daniel Hampikian](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yRvfLLTkIXM): mirror's predecessor, unet - it's similar enough I think.

## Results

With Mirror, I managed to create a multiplayer networked environment using Unity XR integration for the VR rig. 
This is an option definitely worth considering.

<figure class="video_container">
  <video style="width:720px;" autoplay loop>
    <source src="\media\mirror-networking-1.mp4" type="video/mp4">
    Woops! Your browser does not support the HTML5 video tag.
  </video>
</figure>

<figure class="video_container">
  <video style="width:720px;" autoplay loop>
    <source src="\media\mirror-networking-2.mp4" type="video/mp4">
    Woops! Your browser does not support the HTML5 video tag.
  </video>
</figure>

The difficulty may come when networking moving rigid bodies, collisions, object 'ownership' etc. I have yet to find out how troublesome, or not, this will prove to be. I believe that one of Normcore's possible strengths is that this is made relatively straightforward. But until I get Normcore working as well as I've got Mirror working for something fairly simple, such as this, then Mirror is looking a good bet. It's a similar story for Photon PUN 2, which I've yet to see working and working well in a VR environment. 

The research continues...
